Time to put real credentials in a place forks cannot
reach! We will set two secrets, prove they
are write-only, then fork the repo and watch
them disappear.
Most teams drop a dot env file into the repo
because it is the obvious move. The
problem is the fork inherits a byte-for-byte
copy of the image, so your sandbox boots
with the production Stripe key and starts charging
real customer cards.
First we will set a secret in env mode
. The value will land as an environment variable
inside the container. Notice the empty
current flag, we are declaring this
is a brand new secret with no prior value.
Set. The value will land in the container as
an environment variable.
Now a file mode secret. File mode never
puts the value in the container environment. It
writes it to a file at slash run slash secrets, using
Docker standard mechanism. Prefer this
for anything sensitive.
Set as a file. The container reads
it from /run/secrets
, never as an env var.
Let us list what we have. Names and modes
only. The list never shows values
, no matter who is asking.
Names and modes only. Values
are never displayed.
The CLI follows the GitHub Actions model
: get returns a digest, never the value
. If you lose track of a secret, you do not
peek, you rotate, and the audit log
records it as a deliberate change.
Now the part that surprises people. The secret get command returns a digest, not the value
. There is no flag that gives the plaintext back
. That is the GitHub Actions model: write only
by design.
Digest, not plaintext. The CLI
won't show secrets to anyone.
Lost the value? Do not peek
. Rotate. The rotate-secret flag skips
the precondition check, and the audit log marks
the change as a deliberate rotation
. Loud, intentional, safe.
Rotated. The audit log marks this
as a deliberate replacement.
Here is the payoff. The fork shares the
parent's encrypted data, but the secret
store is scoped per repo, so the
fork lists empty and cannot interpolate
any of your production keys.
Now the punchline. We will fork the repo. The
fork is a byte-for-byte copy of the parent
encrypted image.
Fork created. A byte-for-byte copy of the
But when we list the fork secrets: empty
. No Stripe key, no database password, no API token. The fork canno
t pretend to be you. That is why clone
production, break nothing actually works.
Empty. The fork starts with no secrets, by
design.
And that is secrets locked down where forks
cannot follow. See you in the next one!